Ilan's final round of edits (#60)
popsim-consortium/analysis2_manuscript: analysis2_manuscript.tex

    Simulations with selection were implemented by modeling purifying selection on nonsynonymous mutations
    using a DFE inferred by \citet{kim2017inference}.
    A basic summary of nucleotide diversity from these simulations
    shows that the presence of selection decreases polymorphism only slightly
    at the genome-wide level, but more substantially within exonic regions (Figure \ref{fig:homsap-summary-stats}).
    %IG: no need to specify the two scenarios shown in fig
    %under both a constant population size and the out-of-Africa demographic model
    Following the simulation, inference of $N_e(t)$ was conducted from each of the six simulated datasets using four methods: 
    %IG: removed numbering and reordered to match fig 2
    \stairway \citep{liu2020stairway}, \msmc \citep{Schiffels2020}, \smcpp \citep{terhorst2017robust} and \gone \citep{santiago2020recent}.

    Although the estimates produced by the four methods differ from one another, 
    for each method the estimates produced from data with selection (Figure
    \ref{fig:human-demography}; orange) and without selection (Figure
    \ref{fig:human-demography}; blue) are fairly similar.

>     Thus, this particular parameterization of background selection and demographic model,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Thus, this particular parameterization of background selection and demography,
```

    the performance of different methods for inferring the DFE.
    %IG: Moved up the methods here to provide context for their mention in the next para
    Here, we considered three DFE-inference methods:
    \grapes \citep{galtier2016adaptive}, \polydfe \citep{tataru2020polydfe}, and \dadicli \citep{Huang2023}.
    
    A challenge when comparing different inferred and simulated distributions of the selection coefficient ($s$)
    is differing conventions in the literature regarding its definition.
    The simulator \slim and the inference tool \grapes define the selection coefficient $s$ such that a homozygote has fitness $1+s$.
    On the other hand, \dadicli and \polydfe define the selection coefficient such that a homozygote has fitness $1+ 2s$.
    Moreover, inferred distributions of selection coefficients are typically scaled by an inferred ancestral
    effective population size $N_e$, and different methods assume different scaling.
    \dadicli infers the distribution of $2 N_e s$ while \polydfe and \grapes infer the distribution of $4 N_e s$.

>     To allow direct comparison, here we have normalized all inference results to the convention of \slim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To allow direct comparison, here we have normalized all inference results to the convention used by \slim
```

    We start by examining DFE inference from human genomes simulated under an out-of-Africa demographic model
    with selection acting on exons (see \textbf{Methods}).
    In this setting, the DFE is inferred separately for each of the three simulated populations
    using each of the three DFE-inference methods.
    In each case we note that the DFE is estimated from segregating sites only,
    without the use of substitution data, as \stdpopsim's models currently do not
    contain outgroup populations or species that can be used to estimate divergence.
     

>     Overall, inferred DFEs varied across populations and inference methods (Figure \ref{fig:homsap-dfe.ooa}). %, Table \ref{tab:dfe_table}). IG: Table seems less relevant here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Overall, inferred DFEs varied across populations and inference methods (Figure \ref{fig:homsap-dfe.ooa}, Table \ref{tab:dfe_table}). 
```
i'm putting the table back in for completeness

    and exons (to avoid the direct effect of natural selection).
    Thus, inference from datasets simulated with selection was not influenced by direct selection
    acting on exons, but it was influenced by selection acting on linked sites (background selection).    
    %
    We assessed the accuracy of demographic inferences from three software packages:
    \msmc \citep{Schiffels2020}, \stairway \citep{liu2020stairway}, \gone \citep{santiago2020recent},
    and \smcpp \citep{terhorst2017robust}.

>     For \msmc %\citep{Schiffels2020}, IG: no need to double-cite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For \msmc 
```
